We have been working with
Jehovah’s Witnesses for 30 years now
and have progressively grown together
through this experience.
Jehovah’s Witnesses have led us to be
extremely cautious with the use of blood
through good patient preparation,
careful selection of the patient,
careful management in the operating room
with all the available
blood conservation methods,
and correcting anemia prior to surgery.
This has resulted—
And I have to say, of course,
thanks to a relationship that
has become stronger over the years,
it has resulted in a committee
within this hospital
entrusted with limiting the use of blood
even for those who are not bound
by these restrictions.
So it has been a beneficial process.
It has also led to a global reduction
in the use of blood,
which we know is harmful and can
lead to complications, such as those
associated with recovery,
as well as avoidable costs.
If anemia is a factor,
we treat it beforehand
with all the pharmaceutical means
we have available to correct it.
We have a committee in Verona
for the best use of blood
that recommends all these procedures,
which we also apply to patients
who are not Jehovah’s Witnesses.
This is a beneficial process
that your presence has allowed us to make.
With this type of preparation,
we can address
even complex cases of pancreatic resection
and liver resections.
We do resections of liver tumors
and resections of pancreatic tumors.
And we can do these with reasonable
—reasonable—
risks and perform them safely.
In gastrointestinal oncology,
we have come
from a rate of 50 percent
of patients transfused to 15 percent.
So there has been
a notable reduction in the use of blood
because we have, on the one hand,
applied more careful surgical techniques and,
on the other, used all the tools
available to us for an efficient hemostasis.